Hi, good afternoon.
My name is Matt Sturgis.
I'm one of the alliance managers in our
worldwide developer relations group.
And I'm here today to introduce
to you Sybase and some of their
great partners and customers to
talk a little about session 621,
Sybase ASE and the replication server.
A new product recently released
in April that we're very excited
about for the Mac community.
For those of you who know or don't know,
Sybase has actually been on our platform
for a couple of years now and has had
a very successful run with Mac OS X and
specifically with the XServe.
It has some really great named customers
and partners on their platform.
So we're very excited to have
them up here with us today.
And like I said, Steve Olson,
Director of Development or
Director of Engineering from Sybase
is going to come up and speak
to you for a little bit and then
introduce some of his great partners.
And a customer, actually Apple,
as one of our proof points about how
great the technology is and how excited
we are to be working with Sybase.
So with that, I'd like to introduce
Steve and... Thanks,
Matt.
Okay, thanks Matt,
and thank all of you for coming today.
I appreciate your time.
I realize I'm standing between
you and your evening plans,
so hopefully this will be worthwhile.
And I also want to thank Matt and our
friends at Apple for giving us this
opportunity to talk about what has
become our favorite subject lately,
which is Sybase on OS X.
So what I'm going to talk about is...
We're going to talk about
Adaptive Server Enterprise,
which is our enterprise class
database that we've had since
the early days of Sybase,
and the replication server 12.6.
I'll explain a little bit about
what replication is and then
talk about the product itself.
We'll talk a bit about the
optimization we've done for G5,
some of the performance results,
and we'll also talk about
some compatibility with
Microsoft SQL Server and the
effort it might take you to
move from SQL Server to ASE.
And then later, towards the end,
I'll introduce various partners and
customers that have had successful
deployments of applications
using our server on OS X.
[Transcript missing]
Available today is the latest
release of ASE called 12.5.2
Replication Server 12.6.
This is new,
just released in April of this year,
late April.
We also have a number of client
interfaces available for the Mac,
JDBC, ODBC,
our own proprietary APIs called
Open Client for you to build C or C++
applications using our native APIs.
And also we have a mobile and
embedded database that has been
very successful in its market niche
called Adaptive Server Enterprise,
sorry, Adaptive Server Anywhere
or SQL Anywhere Studio.
Version 9.0 is the latest release
and that's available on OS X as well.
We love the Mac OS X operating system
and we are committed to continuing
our support and enhancing our
support on this platform over time.
Focusing on ASE, again I mentioned that
Sybase was founded in 1984.
Our first public release was in 1987,
version 2.1.
It was licensed to Microsoft about a
year later and we did a port to OS 2.
And we then established a business
relationship with Microsoft that
lasted approximately 10 years.
So we have a lot in common even
today after all of this time.
There's still a lot of
commonality between the
SQL Server of Microsoft and ASC.
We basically implement
a standard SQL language,
SQL 92, plus a number of extensions
specific to the OLTP environment.
Architecturally,
we rely heavily on the Unix services
provided by any given platform.
We also are available
on the Windows platform,
but we're highly optimized for Unix.
Back in 1984,
when the company was founded,
the first platforms that we
considered moving our software
to was VaxVMS and SunOS.
And if you recall back in those days,
SunOS was essentially
the first commercial
implementation of Berkeley Unix.
So BSD Unix is very familiar to us,
and we're very happy to see it
again in a commercial product.
It's an old friend in a new coat.
So we rely heavily on it.
And essentially what ASE is
about is it's a Unix process.
We call it an engine.
And we build our own threads.
We manage our own threads.
And each engine manages
some number of threads.
And its own scheduling and so forth.
Engine zero reads a config block and
determines how to allocate memory.
And then initializes a shared
memory region that is used in
case there's additional engines.
If you have two CPUs, for example,
you can attach or
configure a second engine.
If you have ten CPUs,
you could configure ten engines.
So engine zero is very similar.
So engine zero creates
the shared memory region,
and all subsequent
engines then attach to it.
And the shared memory region
contains our data cache,
our procedure cache
for stored procedures,
for compiling ad hoc queries.
And it also contains all
of the system metadata,
information about objects,
our scheduler queues,
thread-specific data, and so forth.
All of that is resident
within shared memory.
So we're very,
very happy this week to learn about
the 64-bit capabilities of TAS.
Because with a 32-bit application,
you are limited to about a
4-gigabyte address space.
With 64 bits,
what it means to us is the shared memory
region could be essentially as large as
you can configure memory on a machine.
So 8 gig, no problem.
Recently, we've done a benchmark with
a major hardware manufacturer
involving 256 gigabytes of memory.
So if Apple provided us with
a machine that could configure
or contain 256 gig of memory,
we would be able to use it.
And the advantage there is that
the more data we can put in cache,
the less I/O we have to do,
and therefore the better the
throughput is going to be,
as a general rule.
So engine zero listens for
connections and then determines the
load that's on all of the engines
and dispatches to the engine with
the fewest number of connections.
So we do some load balancing there.
Each engine communicates with clients
then through Berkeley sockets.
And each engine is capable
of handling about 3,000 or up
to about 3,000 connections.
For a total on an XSERV today of
about 6,000 client connections.
Okay.
So we've also added some extensions
to this port to take advantage of some
unique facilities offered by Mac OS X,
including Rendezvous.
When our server comes up,
we register with Rendezvous so that any
Rendezvous-enabled client can detect the
presence of this server in the network.
It's a very simple interface,
but a very powerful capability is
enabled through this interface.
So during initialization,
our server comes up,
figures out its port number,
etc., and then registers
with Rendezvous and makes its
presence known to the network.
We also provide a
Cocoa-based application,
which is essentially a
discovery tool that lists all
of the servers in your subnet,
all of them available through Rendezvous.
It's a Rendezvous client,
listens for connections of
a particular type or for
services of a particular type,
and also has a login panel.
So as you scroll through this
list of services or servers,
the information that is needed to enable
our client APIs to connect to that
server is showing up in the login panel.
The host name, the port number,
you provide a login name and a password,
and then we pop up an
interactive SQL query window.
So you can then issue queries,
the results are displayed
in the middle panel,
and then errors and
messages and so forth.
And then the results are
displayed in the middle panel,
and then errors and
messages and so forth.
So this is an interactive
SQL application that requires no
configuration whatsoever on your part.
It's just all enabled through Rendezvous,
which is a very powerful capability.
Open Directory Authentication.
ASE has recently implemented a feature we
call Directory Services Authentication.
And what that means is in past
incarnations of our server,
all of the user information was
stored in our system catalogs.
The login name and encrypted
password and so forth.
And so you had to manage
the passwords inside ASE.
You have to manage the passwords in your
operating system and perhaps elsewhere.
What Open Directory Authentication
does is allow you to authenticate
a login using the passwords
that might be in an LDAP server,
Active Directory, maybe Kerberos,
or even Network Information Services or
the Yellow Pages,
depending on where you prefer
to store user information.
So we can authenticate based on
information that's common to all of
your services and all of your platforms.
So this is a very popular feature.
On other platforms,
we don't use Open Directory.
We use PAM or Plugable
Authentication Modules.
And on Windows, we use Active Directory.
With the Panther release of OS X,
a very interesting feature was added
to the release on the OS X server,
which is called Server Admin.
Server Admin allows you to specify a
number of hosts that are available in
your network and lets you manage and
evaluate and get a status of all of
the services on all of those hosts.
So in this example,
we have four servers that are
configured inside the Server Admin tool,
and one of them has a pull-down
showing all of the services
available on that machine.
So what we have done is provided
a plug-in on both this client and
on the server side for Adaptive
Server Enterprise to allow you to manage
ASE through the Server Admin tool.
And in this shot,
what comes up is simply an overview.
It tells you the status of
ASE and the backup server that are
running on this particular host.
We also provide a graphical
interface that shows you
some of the characteristics.
We have, in this example, network I/O,
the amount of network I/O in
terms of reads and writes.
We also provide a response time graphic.
We provide a graphic for disk
I/O and also for procedure
and data cache hit ratios.
In other words,
one measure of the configuration
accuracy or optimization of your
server is whether or not your data
cache is optimal for the load.
And if most of your data
access is basically logical
reads or logical writes,
that means you're not
doing physical I/O to disk.
So the ratios should be fairly high.
And we show a graphic showing
you the ratios of the logical to
physical reads reads in both the data
cache and in the procedure cache.
So it's a very powerful tool and
it gives you an ability to get a
status report at a glance indicating
the general health of your server.
We also provide some tabular
reports that give you some idea of
the operational characteristics,
number of users, number of engines,
and so forth.
There's a lot of information you
can get a quick read of the health
of your server through this tool.
We also provide for development
purposes a system preference panel.
So you can go to system preferences
after you've installed our server and
pull up a Sybase ASE preference panel.
And that will tell you what's
going on with the server,
whether it's up or not.
It's a rendezvous client.
Those green dots indicate
that a server is up.
And if they're red,
that means there's a problem.
And if they're not any color,
that means the server is down.
You can look at the
error log for the server,
and you can also configure it or
revise the configuration of the server.
So what's new in 12.5 too is
we've done some optimization
specific to the G5 processor,
and I'll talk more about that in a bit.
We also provide a sample application.
It's an Xcode project that
illustrates the use of Rendezvous,
Cocoa, and Open Client.
It's based on the server discovery
query tool that I showed you earlier,
and we provide a sample application
that illustrates how all these things,
Cocoa, Rendezvous, and Open Client,
can be used together in an application.
We also provide our Open Client
APIs in a Mac OS X framework so that
you can embed the framework in an
application bundle or to make it very,
very easy for you to deploy
applications throughout various clients.
[Transcript missing]
Also, we found through the use of Shark,
which is an outstanding tool for
getting a quick profile of what's
going on with your application,
we found that some of the system
functions in the C runtime library
were kind of holding us back.
And so we re-implemented or implemented
some of those of our own so that we
could get past those bottlenecks.
So we're not where we want to be yet.
There's a few things that
we can do with the compiler,
including feedback optimization.
Feedback optimization simply means that
you compile with certain command line
options and then run the product or your
application under a representative load.
And then the feedback-optimized server
will collect information about the
use of routines and some statistics
about the running of the server.
And then you can relink feeding that
statistic file into your linking
process to basically give you a more
optimal layout of your executable.
And that's something we've done very,
very successfully.
And it usually gives us a 15 to 20%.
Boost in throughput on our TPCC tests.
We have looked at the
PowerPC compiler from IBM,
and it's very interesting.
It has some additional
optimization features over GCC,
but GCC now has the ability
to give us 64-bit processes.
So we're not so sure where we're going
to go with the PowerPC compiler from IBM.
But anyway, our expectations are,
based on the horsepower that
we've seen and the throughput
we've seen from the G5s,
we should be able to get about 30,000
transactions per minute per CPU from
the G5s for a total of at least 60,000
transactions a minute on a dual system.
Now, that's not too bad.
That's about what we've
seen on other platforms.
But the interesting attribute of
this test that we learned was that
we are completely... 100% CPU bound,
meaning that we're not waiting
on I/O from the network,
I/O from the disk system.
We're completely CPU bound,
which means that if Apple, for example,
had a 3 GHz CPU,
we should see a proportional increase,
a 50% increase in throughput.
From the testing we've done,
the X-rayed units are more than
capable of handling the kinds of
load that we've been throwing at it.
In fact, I don't see us... I mean,
it would take more horsepower
before we started to see the
I/O system being a limit.
Okay, so one of the attributes that we
found to be important to our customers
is our SQL server compatibility.
We're finding increasingly that
customers are somewhat unhappy with
Microsoft for a variety of reasons.
There's an interest in Unix-based servers
as opposed to Windows-based servers.
And there's an interest in
moving from those servers to ASC.
And because of our common heritage,
that's relatively easy.
So as I mentioned,
the server from Microsoft was
licensed from Sybase,
and we have a lot in common still.
Even though late in about 1998 or 97,
the two companies parted ways,
we still have a lot in common.
So there's a high
degree of compatibility.
There are, however,
some incompatibilities because
we have evolved our product in a
certain direction and Microsoft has
evolved its product in another.
But there's a high degree of
compatibility still between the two.
So what we've done is we've adopted
a strategy to minimize or reduce
the incompatibilities over time.
It's not going to happen all at once.
For example, with 12.5.03,
we introduced a number of new
built-in functions and some global
variables to enhance the compatibility
of our server with Microsoft.
With 12.5.1, we've added some additional
syntax to our language,
specifically for purposes of
compatibility with SQL Server.
Derived tables, bracketed identifiers,
sort of a unique SQL Server construct
that allows you to create an identifier.
For example, a table name.
Or a column name with spaces or
maybe it's a reserved SQL keyword.
Very easy to use that as a column
name or table name simply by
surrounding it with brackets.
And so on.
So we've added a number of constructs
within the language for this purpose.
Next year, we'll have a new release,
version 15, where we'll address some
additional more significant issues.
For example, large identifiers.
Identifier lengths today are 3.5.
Identifier lengths today are 30 bytes.
With SQL Server, it's 128 characters.
So we're adding up to a
255-byte identifier support,
scrollable cursors, forward, backward,
relative, absolute, and so forth.
Additional data types that are found
in SQL Server today but not in ASE.
Computed columns,
columns whose value is determined
by values in other columns.
And the select top.
So one of the examples I'd like
to talk about briefly is our
partnership with SAP Business One.
They've moved their application to ASE.
And some of the issues that they
encountered in the process of doing that,
I'd like to just review fairly quickly.
They ran into some data type issues.
In particular, ntext.
ntext is a Unicode text data type.
And there's no equivalent in Sybase.
However.
We can configure -- they ended up
using text as a data type with a
default character set of UTF-8,
which gave them equivalent capabilities.
Select top was used
extensively by Business One.
And we had -- we did
not support that syntax.
So it was painful for them
to work around that issue.
They used Active Directory for
user authentication.
And that wasn't available,
at least at the time.
It is now.
ODBc Driver Performance.
We have a partnership with a third
party to provide ODBc drivers.
We had some performance issues,
so as a result of this issue,
we decided to just roll
our own ODBc driver.
And that's what's
happening now for Windows,
Linux, and OS X.
That driver is available now in beta
on Mac OS X if you're interested.
So they also ran into some
query limits and server limits.
They're just different on ASE,
and we had to address those.
And also some administrative tasks that
were different between the two servers.
And most of the issues had to
do with administrative tasks.
Our administration tasks are different.
The syntax is different.
The behavior is different.
And so on.
So those are some of the issues
that Business One had to address.
And the interesting thing, though,
is that we now have a partner team
in engineering focused specifically
on addressing issues related to
porting an application or moving it
from another database vendor to ASE.
And if you have an application
that is interested in doing that,
we'd be happy to help you out,
as we've done with SAP and Business One.
Tools of course make it easy.
We can migrate schema and data
from just about any server to ASC.
And later you'll hear from Bob how
Servoy can make this happen as well.
Once you've moved the server,
the data and the schema,
you also have to concern
yourself with the client.
We provide ODBC drivers,
OlayDB on Windows, ADO.net on Windows,
JDBC on any platform.
It's a pure or type 4 driver.
And Visual Basic.
If your application is in Visual Basic,
you can use Real Basic.
We provide a plug-in for the
Real Basic software that uses ASC.
And of course, DB Library.
One of the things that
besides the server,
Microsoft also inherited DB Library.
And they again have
evolved their API into in a
different direction slightly.
So there's a lot of commonality,
but there are some differences,
especially in terms of data types.
So our goal is to make it as
easy as possible for you to
migrate from SQL Server to ASC.
And we're doing that by enhancing our
server to be as compatible as possible.
Now it's a moving target.
I expect that the UConn release of
SQL Server will have additional syntax,
but we're keeping track of that.
And as issues come up that are
raised by you and our partners,
we expect to address
them within our server.
I'd also like to mention some
other tools and solutions
available today using the Mac,
ASE, and OS X.
The WebObjects product has an
adapter for it that is designed
by Apple and supports ASE.
It's on the CD when you buy WebObjects.
Real Basic I've already mentioned.
Another one I'd like to point
out is an outstanding product.
If you want to build a Cocoa application
using a very slick user interface,
using, you know,
advanced objects for database session
and result set management and so forth,
take a look at Runtime's labs.
It's all written in C, C++, Objective-C.
It's a dynamite tool and framework.
Also, you'll be hearing more later
in this session from Servoy,
who has a very,
very nice tool for Java implementations,
and Bob will be talking about that later.
PowerEasy is an interesting solution.
They have an ERP application for
small to medium-sized businesses.
It's an outstanding package,
and it's a complete solution.
And so forth.
So, replication server.
I'd like to talk briefly about this.
What do we mean by replication?
Replication is essentially
copying database changes
from one server to another.
And when we say copying database changes,
we don't mean any changes.
We mean on a transaction basis so
that all of the changes associated
with one committed transaction can be
propagated atomically to another server.
So, if the transaction is
rolled back in the middle,
changes that might have
occurred are not propagated.
It's a store-and-forward model.
We have a replication server
which captures changes
from our transaction log.
[Transcript missing]
Models that our customers have used
tend to fall into four categories.
There's a model of data distribution
where you can distribute data from
one site to n number of other sites.
Consolidation,
meaning any number of sites can replicate
their changes to one central site.
Synchronization is essentially
a bidirectional replication.
And then disaster recovery or what we
might call a warm standby where you
can replicate all the changes in a
database to a warm standby server so
that if your site is suddenly taken out,
you have a backup or a warm standby.
And we'll talk more about that.
The distribution model is relatively
straightforward conceptually.
You have changes going
on at a central site,
in this example San Francisco,
that need to be propagated to
any of a number of other sites,
including New York, Dallas,
or another San Francisco installation.
So that's the data distribution model.
And again, it's a publish/subscribe.
All of these three servers have
to subscribe to those changes,
and the ASE then has to
publish those changes.
So there is some setup.
We have tools for that,
making it relatively easy to do that.
Data consolidation is very similar,
except it's just going the other way.
Changes from any remote site can
be propagated and consolidated
into a single central site.
Synchronization is basically
a bidirectional replication,
nothing more complicated than that.
If there's conflicts, in other words,
keys are duplicated in either direction,
then they're placed in a rep server queue
and you have to resolve them manually.
And then there's the warm standby
or disaster recovery scenario.
So you have some number
of clients interacting and
transacting with a primary server.
Changes are replicated en masse.
In other words, the entire database is
replicated to a standby server.
The changes are placed in a queue
and forwarded when possible.
Now, the primary may crash or, you know,
you may have a power outage.
Something may happen
on your primary server.
Our client APIs allow automatic client
failover to an alternate server.
And our replication server
can be notified to reverse
the direction of replication.
So when this happens,
the queues from the primary
to the standby are drained.
And then all the changes in the standby
then... are propagated back to the
rep server who places them in a queue
until the primary becomes available.
And a lot of our customers use this.
For example,
we had a number of customers in
the World Trade Center on 9/11.
Their entire site was taken out.
And fortunately,
some of them had backup sites in
either Chicago or London or...
There were no geographic... There are
no geographic limitations on where you
can... where you can put your standby.
It's entirely up to your network
and how much bandwidth you want
to pay for in a wide area network.
So they were able to recover
and get back online very,
very quickly.
Architecturally,
the model is fairly simple.
A server that wishes to publish changes
has to have a replication agent.
Within ASE,
that agent is simply a background thread,
one for each database that reads the
transaction log and then forwards
changes to the replication server.
The replication server then knows
who the subscribers are and then
propagates those changes to subscribers.
The agents we provide are, of course,
agents for our own Sybase servers,
but we also provide agents for Oracle,
DB2, Microsoft, Informix, and AS400.
So these are log-based agents
that read transaction log,
mostly log-based agents,
read the transaction log,
forward data to replication server,
who then treats it like it came from
ASE and propagates to any subscriber.
And the subscriber need
not be a Sybase server.
It can be any server.
It can be Oracle.
It can be DB2 or Microsoft and so forth.
So one example of topologies that
some of our customers have employed,
some of our largest customers,
for example, Goldman Sachs,
which is one of our
largest users of RepServer,
have sites all over the world.
And they have consolidation,
distribution, synchronization issues,
as well as warm standby issues.
So they have some fairly
complex topologies,
and all of those are supported
very nicely by RepServer.
With version 12.6,
which was announced just in April,
available now on 10.3 of OS X,
we now support multi-site availability.
So you can essentially
establish channels.
One RepServer might propagate
to other subscribers,
which are ASEs,
but you might also forward
to another RepServer.
In other words,
a RepServer might be a subscriber,
and it can forward changes to other ASEs.
So you can fan out the changes.
And obtain near infinite
scalability in this fashion.
We've also simplified the interface.
It's a graphical tool built on Java,
so that's also available
and running well on the Mac.
And the installation uses InstallShield.
So, it's available today and it's
designed primarily for downtime,
to manage downtime and
to distribute data.
I would say more than half of
our customers use RepServer
for managing downtime,
either planned or unplanned.
And, of course,
many use it for distributing
data around a network,
but the majority now are using
it for managing downtime.
By providing, you know, standby servers.
Okay, and now I'd like to introduce
Eric Leister who's going to talk about an
implementation at the Apple manufacturing
facilities and he has an interesting
application using WebObjects.
So what I'm going to start with first is
sort of what our business challenge was,
what we were trying to accomplish.
Basically, Apple needed an enterprise
system that would basically allow
us to report and consolidate
product performance information,
basically yield information
from the factories,
and be able to provide that data and
the status of how things are running
from multiple sites at the same time.
Before,
that was being done with emails and
with spreadsheets and things like that,
so you can imagine it would
take a long time to consolidate
that information together.
It also needed to provide
data that was accurate,
real-time, and actionable.
Again, being able to look at the
data and do something with it
rather than consolidate data,
so we were trying to put
all this stuff together.
Provide real-time data for analysis
during our engineering builds,
which would be for new products,
to quicker get data rather than
having to wait a day to get data,
it would be there immediately.
Again, coming back to high availability.
We wanted to make sure that we were
able to get the data that we needed,
and then also more effectively
manage these new builds,
so that, you know,
bring products to market quicker.
The capability also needed to be there
to integrate with our test environment,
so we actually captured detailed
test information about the
units that are being built,
so that we can more
quickly root cause issues.
So we had a set of database requirements
that we wanted to have in the database.
So one was support a
mission-critical system,
be able to handle high transactions.
We have lots of volumes
going through the factory,
so we need to make sure that
it can handle those volumes.
High performance and be very scalable.
So as the factories create more product,
we need to be able to handle that volume.
Also be able to have a warm standby.
So if something goes down,
hardware issue, drives,
we'll be able to cut
over to a backup system.
Also have a WebObjects
adapter and run on OS X.
Application requirements.
We wanted something that
was database independent.
So basically whatever development
we did there could be run basically
with any type of database.
Provide rapid development tools.
Basically we're being
asked to customize reports,
add new fields,
things like that all the time.
So we need to make sure that we
can go in and quickly do that.
Easily maintainable deployment.
Basically being able to deploy
the applications quickly.
The fact that we can put them on the web
means we can update them quickly as well.
They need to be scalable.
If we need to add more
instances or more servers,
we need to be able to
deploy those quickly.
And also run an OS X server.
So from an architecture,
we basically put all this on one server
for our deployment to the remote site.
So we start with Mac OS X Server.
We add Sybase ASE.
Then we put the WebObjects
layer on top of that.
Our own data frameworks or data
collection frameworks go there.
That's where all our business logic,
reusable components, things are at.
Then we have daemons and reporting admin
and shop floor client applications for
collecting data directly on the lines.
Again, all this is running on one server.
So our server hardware
configuration consists of,
we're running G4 dual processor
133s with 2 gigs of RAM,
OS X Server 1033, Sybase ASE 12.5.1,
WebObjects 5.2.3,
and Apache with just the
standard WebObjects deployment
through Java Monitor.
So our server hardware
configuration consists of,
we're running G4 dual processor
133s with 2 gigs of RAM,
OS X Server 1033, Sybase ASE 12.5.1,
WebObjects 5.2.3,
and Apache with just the
standard WebObjects deployment
through Java Monitor.
We're running G4 dual processor
133s with 2 gigs of RAM,
OS X Server 1033, Sybase ASE 12.5.1,
WebObjects 5.2.3,
and Apache with just the
standard WebObjects deployment
through Java Monitor.
So our database schema,
we have about 95 tables.
One table has slightly over
9 million records and is
continually growing every day.
We have five tables with 1 to 5
million records each and 10 tables
with over 100,000 records each.
Everything, all the other tables are
less than 100,000 records.
We also use Warm Standby,
basically replication server
with Warm Standby for our
primary and secondary databases.
And we use table replication
to the remote sites,
which we go through here next.
So basically,
we have three ways that we migrate
data between the databases.
We have Warm Standby that
replicates between the primary
and the secondary database.
We happen to also use the secondary
database as a reporting database.
That's one of the main
reasons we've broken out the
applications between reporting.
We have the reporting apps, clients,
and admin apps so that we can
have the reporting apps actually
target our backup database.
So it's not actually the transactions
or big selects for like a year's
worth of data do not affect inserts
and updates into the other database,
the primary.
We also have table replication
for about 31 tables that
pump things like usernames,
passwords, other information that needs
to be shared across the sites.
Those are all going
through table replication.
And then we have an export-import
routine that we use.
Basically, we use the EO model,
and we dump the data into flat files,
and those get FTPed back and
forth between the sites just to
keep the data warehouse in sync.
So we decided to do some
performance testing to see just how,
when we were trying
to evaluate databases,
what kind of performance we could get.
So what we did was we
started with a dual G4,
1 gigahertz with a gig of RAM.
We had a RAID box with RAID 5 and
OS X Server 10.3.3 and 12.5.1 of Sybase.
And what we did was we simulated 10 lines
in a factory running as fast as they can.
To sort of put that in perspective,
you can imagine that a line,
the way we measure the performance
of a line is by cycle time.
So if you have a 30-second
cycle time on a line,
that basically gives you two units or
two widgets off of a line per minute.
So with 10 lines,
you'd have 20 units a minute
coming off all 10 lines.
And what we were able to do in
our simulation was generate 1,800
unique serial numbers per minute,
which is basically almost 20 times.
So that's about a hundred times more
than what the 10 lines would normally
do under a 30-second cycle time.
So if we take that transaction load,
we use SP Sysmon,
which is a stored procedure to give
you sort of transactional information.
We found that we were getting about
466 transactions per second or
28,000 transactions per minute or
1.68 million transactions per hour.
And of those, they're the percentages,
70% of those are inserts.
So there's actually a lot
of I/O going on there.
15% updates, 8% selects, and 7% deletes.
After we did some more research,
we found that actually the 8% selects is
actually much lower than what the number
of selects are truly going on there.
The 8% selects were more of
updates that basically end up
being selects and not actually
updating records in the database.
So we figure that it's probably
closer to 2 million transactions
if you counted selects,
if we were able to get that in there.
And then also we have
the two engines going.
So we were about 75% utilizing CPUs.
So we think if we added another
XSERV that was running our simulations,
we could actually get even more
performance out of the system.
So now I'm going to sort of go
through a demo of the web application
that we put together that'll show
how we report the information.
It's just one of the many
pieces of this whole system.
And it's all sort of simulated data,
so it's not real data in there.
But this is sort of the login screen.
We do user authentication
through the system as well,
so we can go in, username, password.
The first screen you come into,
it gives basically management
the ability to go in,
choose what sites they're interested in,
and then see what products were
actually built at that site.
So you can imagine these would be,
they're just generic names here.
But as you can see,
you can see what the current
calendar week's yields are,
what the previous weeks were,
so you can see if there
are any trends going on.
And in this case, you can see there's 66%
last week versus this week,
which was 80%, so we could drill
into that and see what's going on.
Then we see that there are the
two sites that we're looking at,
and you can see there's 64% QM yield
for site two and 72% for site six.
So we can then drill into site two,
and then we actually have a
graphing that shows what the
volumes were for that week,
how the trending yields are going,
what the yield points,
these are just generic yield points here.
So you can see what's going on,
top five failures.
If you scroll further
down into the graph,
you'll actually see more
detailed information,
what happened on each day individually.
And then again,
you can root cause down to see, okay,
there's a spike down
there at 8% on the ninth.
We go into that,
and then we can actually see
the list of serial numbers,
what the failures were, rework actions.
Again, this is just sort of
touching the surface.
You could drill down further
into the serial number and see
details about the failures,
how many times it had been through
certain tests and all that.
So that's it.
Okay, I'd like to introduce Dr.
Keith Campbell from Oveon,
who will be talking about his
application and what he's doing with
some very interesting technology.
Thank you.
I wanted to start by just trying
to motivate why Inovion is trying
to do what we're trying to do.
What do you want when
you lose your sight?
Prevent diabetic blindness.
Diabetic blindness is the number
one cause of preventable blindness
in the United States today.
And the sad part of it is that
90% of the patients that go blind,
it could have been prevented
if they had treatment in time.
And diabetes is a growing
problem in the country.
There's more and more people being
diagnosed with diabetes all the time.
They're talking about, you know,
the epidemic of obesity and of diabetes
subsequently in our population.
And even though there's
treatment that's 90% effective,
only 40% of patients actually
get that treatment done,
excuse me, that test done every year.
And that's really a tragedy because
a lot of people are going blind.
So this is the problem
we're trying to solve.
And Inovian is trying to
solve this through technology.
[Transcript missing]
So,
for our diabetic retinopathy evaluations,
What does Sybase provide us?
Well, one of the things is that when we
were looking at re-architecting,
OS X had come out,
and one of the questions was raised was,
well,
can we use the same platform end-to-end?
And at the time,
we had very limited options,
and actually when we heard
the announcement that Sybase
was going to come out on OS X,
that really changed the way
we started thinking about the
infrastructure which we would deploy it,
because we were able to have an
enterprise class database that would
provide the reliability that we
needed and allow us to focus on some
of the other issues of reliability
in the computing out in the edge.
So it's something that has basically
allowed us to work on our business
enterprise architecture without
having to worry about the database,
which was one of the things that we
had had to worry about in the past.
So, excuse me,
Sybase provides us with these
warm copies of data so that
we can have quick deployment.
We have a lot of data storage,
we have a lot of data storage management,
we have a lot of data storage
management of standby,
reporting copies and backup
copies for disaster recovery.
We use a hierarchical storage
management system for storing
these 50 megabyte digital files,
and we have pointers from the
database to the hierarchical storage
management system for doing that.
What Sybase provides us, again,
is this enterprise class
scalability and reliability,
support for redundant data centers,
confidence in the data
integrity and reliability,
and also in a very cost-effective
and yet proven reliable solution.
And finally, I'd like to introduce
Bob Cusick from Servoy.
He's the managing director of Servoy USA.
We'll talk about the
Servoy R2 deployment.
Thank you, you guys are brave.
The last presenter of the last session.
Woo-hoo!
Okay, I have about 200 slides.
No,
I have three slides and then a real demo.
All right, so hang in there.
We're almost there.
All right,
I'm going to talk about Servoi R2.
Servoi R2 is a development
and deployment environment for
GUI applications that can be connected
to any SQL database that you want,
or more than one simultaneously.
And we can actually see it.
So this slide is kind of mute.
It's very easy to use.
Zero deployment client.
It's based on Java,
so it will run anywhere,
and you'll see it.
I just wanted to talk to you about some
of the things that you can do with Savoy.
And in particular,
I wanted to talk to you about a
really big win that we got with
Stanford using Sybase ASE and
Sybase ASA as well as Savoy.
So here was the challenge.
We had to integrate a whole bunch
of stuff and they have legacy
things inside of the university
that you wouldn't believe.
Everybody has their
own favorite database.
It could be Informix, it could be Sybase,
it could be ASA, it could be Oracle,
it could be anything.
And they needed to put it all together.
So the way that they were doing it
is they had knowledge workers who
would get data dumps and exports and
spreadsheets and FileMaker and 4D and
some access stuff and they would just
kind of mishmash it all together and
then re-output it as spreadsheets and
data dumps and then put it back in.
So it was very, very cumbersome,
took a lot of time, very error-prone,
very human-intensive.
So what we helped them to do is we helped
them to codify their process by using
stored procedures inside of ASC to get
a standardized way to do everything.
And we used Savoy to
build the user interface.
And because Savoy is so easy to use,
these non-technical people,
these people who are used to using
end-user databases like Access or
FileMaker Pro could easily create these
user interfaces with no programming.
All right, so we're going to go
actually do that right now.
I'm going to build for you
here a customer invoice,
invoice detail, complete solution,
and I'm going to deploy it
in less than five minutes.
Ready?
Here we go.
All right,
so we're going to do a new solution,
and I'm going to call it WWDC.
And here I have a list of named servers.
These servers can live anywhere.
They can be on LAN, WAN,
they can be anything that you want.
I have one here that is a Sybase
database called Example Data.
And down here this shows me all
of the tables that are inside of
that named connection database.
So I'm going to choose
to create two forms,
one based on customers
and one based on orders.
Actually, sorry, customers.
Okay, so two tables.
So I click OK.
Now this will go and actually
interrogate the database.
So these are all the columns
inside of the customer table.
So let's pick some here.
I'm going to say OK.
And these are the ones
inside of the orders.
Let's pick some columns here.
OK.
Now, I'm going to come out of
this data design mode.
[Transcript missing]
Backspace over this character.
As soon as I leave this field,
it's automatically committed and
written to the backend database.
So that's pretty cool.
So I have my customers and
that works the same way.
There's two different tables.
Let's come here.
And I can go ahead and use my
keyboard if I want to and make these
bigger or smaller by the keyboard.
All right, so that's all fine and good.
But now let's go ahead and
do something interesting.
So I have the order header,
but now I want to see all the details.
Just one quick question, though.
First, how much SQL did we write so far?
Okay.
Nothing.
That's the fun part, right?
That's where the knowledge worker
can get in here and create these
forms and these applications that
they need to get their data done
and not have to call up IT and go,
oh, by the way,
you got that thing done yet.
All right?
So we want to now join things together.
How many of you want to really
tutor these knowledge workers
in how to do SQL joins?
Anybody?
No?
Probably not.
Okay.
So I'll show you the
Savoy way of doing things.
So we're going to go back into
our data designer mode here,
and we're going to come up,
and we have a thing called a relation.
[Transcript missing]
and David Koehn,
and I'm going to choose a primary key.
It shows me all the columns.
I'm going to choose
customer ID to customer ID.
And in this case,
it's going to be an equity
join or an equal join,
but I can do greater than, less than,
not equal to,
and I can have multiple predicates,
multiple key fields.
I can do cascading deletes optionally
just by clicking a checkbox.
So I click OK.
Now I'm also going to do another one.
I'm going to go from
order to order details.
Here's where it gets interesting, right,
because they're named connections.
So this one on the left-hand
side could be MySQL.
And on the right-hand side,
I could join to an Oracle database
or a Sybase ASE database
or a Sybase ASA to MySQL,
any combination that you want to.
So you can actually join data
across multiple vendors' databases
and have it all on one screen.
So we're going to go from order to order
details based on order ID to order ID.
All right, click OK.
Now I'm going to click and drag,
move these objects,
and now we want to show all of the
order details for this order below it.
So we have a structure
that's called a portal.
So this is what this object is,
and it shows me these
are the valid relations.
It knows that I'm on the orders table.
It knows there's only one valid relation,
so it only shows me one valid one.
Let's pick these columns, click OK.
And now I have this portal structure.
I can make it bigger.
So now when I come out of my design mode,
I now have all the children records.
[Transcript missing]
and the order details for this customer.
Okay,
anyone want to write that SQL statement?
No, probably not.
Me neither.
All right,
here's the Savoy way of doing it.
We put a tab panel object on there.
And it says, okay,
here's customer to orders,
and there's a form called orders
that's based on that join.
So that's all we need to do.
We say yes, use that form.
Here's my tab panel.
I'm going to pull it out here,
come out of my data mode.
Now I have this customer
has six invoices.
This one has 14, this has 8, this has 19,
this has 14.
And I can go through here
and I can edit this data even
though it's three tables away.
And how much SQL did I write?
Zero.
All right.
I don't have time to show you
all of the really nice user
interface things that you can do.
This is obviously a
really simple example,
but you can make it look really pretty.
Now let's deploy it, okay?
So now we've built it.
It's beautiful.
This is our app.
Now I need to deploy it worldwide.
Okay.
With some other project,
like desktop databases, right?
It's a sneaker net install or a network
install or a ghosted image install.
With Servoi,
it's point a web browser to your Servoi
application server and push the button.
We use Java Web Start technology.
So what happens is as soon as I click,
everything happens completely
outside of the browser,
independently of the browser
using Java Web Start.
And I say start.
Now this Java Web Start application is
Self-healing.
It will check with the server
every time it's launched,
and if there's a new version,
it will self-update
and continue to launch.
So here's my two solutions.
There's a CRM and the one
that we created called WWDC.
and here on my client is WWDC.
Just like it was
Everything works just the same.
I can go to my customer's form.
Here's the embedded customer's form,
and it works just the same as
it did in site of the developer.
This can be deployed over the LAN.
This can be deployed over the WAN.
I built it in less than five
minutes and deployed it.
Now, Bob,
how about things like network latency?
There is a site that you can visit,
and this is going to be...
DemoServoy.com:8080.
Now if this looks familiar,
this is a server that's
running in Amsterdam.
Notice it does the same thing.
It goes and gets a client.
And you can run this from your
own network if you want to.
Just to test the network latency.
Is it fast over network?
It's coming, coming, coming.
Here it is.
All right.
And we're going to go ahead
and load up a solution.
And it's opening up right now.
So once the solution loads,
it'll run as fast as
it does on the network.
Here's the CRM demo.
This is the demo that we ship
with as a sample application.
And we'll go here to the company's form.
I will click on this detail.
And as you can see,
all the controls are native Aqua.
Okay?
If you were to deploy
this on a Windows machine,
all of the controls
would be native Windows.
If you deployed it on a Linux machine,
all the controls would be native Linux.
If you did it on a Solaris machine,
all the controls would be native Solaris.
Okay?
No coding.
No changes.
Ready to go.
This is data coming from Holland.
This is live data.
So let me just scroll through this.
Data one at a time for you.
And you can see that tab panels and all,
it goes very quickly even
over a network this far away.
All right?
And one more thing in closing.
Because I know we want
to get to some Q&A.
I want to give you a chance
to try out Savoy on your own.
After this speech,
if you would like to give
me your business card,
I will send you a copy of
the reg code for no charge.
[Transcript missing]
That's about all I got,
so I stick to my time frame.
Thank you very much.
Do see me afterwards and I will
be happy to get you a copy.
Thank you.
Okay, I think right now what I'd like
to do is just point out that we
are committed to this platform.
We're going to be continuing to
enhance and the value that we add
to this is rock-solid industrial
strength database technology on a very,
very high-performing
and low-cost platform.
You can get more information from myself,
Mike Azevedo at Sybase, or Darryl Salas.
You can contact these, any of us,
at any time.
We have a version of the Adaptive
Server Enterprise available on
our website at sybase.com/mac.
It's a free download of our
developer's edition for the Mac,
and it's -- I think the current
version that's out there is 12.5.2.
I may be wrong.
It might be 12.5.1.
All of our documentation
is available online.
You can reference HTML, the HTML pages.
If you have any question about
the syntax of a command or
some topic related to ASE,
you can get that.